## 20201225

[TOC]

使用 helm upgrade --install

Some systems, like CI pipelines, are employed to automatically install or upgrade a chart each time a significant event occurs.

The `helm upgrade --install` command will install a release if it does not exist already, or will upgrade a release if a release by that name is found



The `--wait` flag will track such objects, waiting until the pods they create are marked as `Running` by Kubernetes.

CI 中建议指定 --wait 和 --timeout

One recommendation for using `--wait` in CI is to use a long `--timeout` (five or ten minutes) to ensure that Kubernetes has time to resolve any transient failures.



--atomic 跟 --wait差不多，失败了自动回滚。



Helm users want to make sure that the pods are restarted. That’s where the `--force` flag comes 。

That’s where the `--force` flag comes ，will cause downtime。



The `--cleanup-on-fail` flag will attempt to fix this situation.



```
{{ include "anvil.fullname" . }}
```

The first argument to the `include` function is the name of the template to use.

The `.` passed in as the second argument is the root object.

This is passed in so the properties and functions on the root object can be used within the called template.

包含模板到root object scope



### Information Helm Passes To Templates

.Values 

The properties on `.Values` are specific to each chart based entirely on the values in the *values.yaml* file and those passed into a chart

.Release

information about the release,is available at `.Release`

* `.Release.Name` has the name of the release.
* `.Release.Namespace` contains the namespace the chart is being released to.
* `.Release.IsInstall` is set to `true` when the release is a workload being installed.
* `.Release.IsUpgrade` is set to `true` when the release is an upgrade or rollback.



.Chart The information in the *Chart.yaml* file can also be found on the data object at `.Chart`

- `.Chart.Name` contains the name of the chart.
- `.Chart.Version` has the version of the chart.
- `.Chart.AppVersion` is the application version, if set.
- `.Chart.Annotations` can contain a key/value list of annotations.

Chart.yaml中大写的属性，如果你需要传递自定义信息从Chart.yaml到模板。你需要使用注解annotations



.Capabilities Helm provides some data about the capabilities of the cluster on `.Capabilities`.

获取k8s相关信息

- `.Capabilities.APIVersions` contains the API versions and resource types available in your cluster. You will learn how to use this in a little bit.
- `.Capabilities.KubeVersion.Version` is the full Kubernetes version.
- `.Capabilities.KubeVersion.Major` contains the major Kubernetes version. Since Kubernetes has not been incrementing the major version this is set to `1`.
- `.Capabilities.KubeVersion.Minor` has the minor version of Kubernetes being used in the cluster.



Charts还包含自定义文件，比如配置文件，可以通过.Files获得，当然这些文件不应该被包含在*.helmignore* 文件中。

- `.Files.Get name` provides a means of getting the contents of the file as a string. `name`, in this case, is the name including file path from the root of the chart.
- `.Files.GetBytes` is similar to `.Files.Get` but instead of returning a string the file is returned as an array of bytes. In Go terms, this is a byte slice (i.e. `[]byte`).
- `.Files.Glob` accepts a glob pattern and returns another files object containing only the files whose names match the pattern.
- `.Files.AsConfig` takes a files group and returns it as flattened YAML suitable to include in the `data` section of a Kubernetes ConfigMap manifest. This is useful when paired with `.Files.Glob`.
- `.Files.AsSecrets` is similar to `.Files.AsConfig`. Instead of returning flattened YAML it returns the data in a format that can be included in the `data` section of a Kubernetes Secret manifest. It’s base64 encoded. This is useful when paired with `.Files.Glob`. For example, `{{ .Files.Glob("mysecrets/**").AsSecrets }}`.
- `.Files.Lines` has an argument for a file name and returns the contents of the file as a array split by newlines (i.e. `\n`).



.Template details about the current template being executed. Helm passes in

* .Template.Name 当前执行的模板文件名
* .Template.BasePath 当前执行的模板文件目录名



. 当前作用域可以改变，但是永远可以通过$来得到根作用域



### Pipelines

```yaml
character: {{ .Values.character | default "Sylvester" | quote }}
```

以 | 分隔

如果.Values.character为空，默认值为“Sylvester”



### 模板函数

比如上面说的default 和 quote



```yaml
      securityContext:
        {{- toYaml .Values.podSecurityContext | nindent 8 }}
```

a `-` is used with `{{` to remove all the whitespace up to the `:` on the previous line.

nindent  添加一个新行，然后缩进每一个行



所有的函数可参考

*https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/function_list/*.



```yaml
# if 条件语句 with an `and` or an `or` statement
{{- if and .Values.characters .Values.products -}}
...
{{- else -}}
# Ingress not enabled
{{- end }}


{{- if or (eq .Values.character "Wile E. Coyote") .Values.products -}}
```



`with` is similar to `if` ,  如果值为空就跳过，并且改变.的值

```yaml
  {{- with .Values.ingress.annotations }}
  annotations:
    {{- toYaml . | nindent 4 }}
  {{- end }}
```

### 变量

 Variables start with a `$` 

```yaml
# 声明并初始化变量
{{ $var := .Values.character }}
```

### 循环

```yaml
products:
{{- range $key, $value := .Values.products }}
  - {{ $key }}: {{ $value | quote }}
{{- end }}
```

### 命名模板

```shell
# 注释
{{/*
Selector labels 
*/}}

# 定义语法， define template名字
{{- define "anvil.selectorLabels" -}}
app.kubernetes.io/name: {{ include "anvil.name" . }} 
app.kubernetes.io/instance: {{ .Release.Name }}
{{- end -}} 

# 使用模板， include包含两个参数，第一个是模板名，第二个是data object (global object)
{{- include "anvil.selectorLabels" . | nindent 6 }}
```

Templates can act like functions in a software program.



和template命名的区别。

The template command does turn the template commands into YAML. At this point it will provide an error if the generated YAML cannot be parsed. What it won’t do it validate the YAML against the Kubernetes schema. 

template没有k8s校验，helm没有跟k8s集群通信。



```shell
helm get manifest myanvil
```

``` shel
helm lint anvil
```



### Chart 仓库

we will cover the next generation of chart repositories using Helm’s experimental OCI support. This bleeding-edge 前沿 functionality added in Helm 3 allows users to store Helm charts in container registries alongside their container images 存储容器镜像的同时存储helm charts



所有的仓库都有一个index.yaml文件，列出多有包含的chart和它们的下载路径

All chart repositories contain a special repository index file called `index.yaml`



To generate a repository index inside the `charts/` directory, run the following

``` shell
helm repo index charts/
```



创建一个chart，打包。然后重新index

``` shell
helm package superapp/ --destination charts/
helm repo index charts/
```



#### 创建一个测试仓库

``` shell
$ ( cd charts/ && python3 -m http.server --bind 127.0.0.1 8080 )
```

``` shell
$ curl -sO http://localhost:8080/superapp-0.1.0.tgz
```



#### 增加鉴权

```shell
helm repo add mycharts http://localhost:8080 --username myuser --password mypass
```



#### 现实场景-使用GitHub Pages

略



#### 下载charts

```shell
helm pull mycharts/superapp --version 0.1.0
```



#### 列出仓库

```shell
# 已特定格式显示输出
helm repo list -o yaml
```

In order to fetch the latest version of the repository index，use the `helm repo update`command。